INSTALLING MATH FONTS

To install a math font one should add it to the system fonts or install
it in the TeX Live directory structure (or both).


1. INSTALLING SYSTEM FONTS

a. WINDOWS
Window 7 (or newer): Right click on the font file, choose install
option. Windows 98 (or newer): Go to Start, then Control Panel.
Double click on Fonts, and drag-and-drop the font file into the Fonts
applet window. In MS Windows up to XP, in the Fonts applet, you can
also choose File from the menu bar, then Install New Font.

b. APPLE (MAC OS X)
The font can be installed by double-clicking on the font file and
following the on screen prompts in the Font Book application, or by
manually copying (or dragging) the font file to any of the standard
Fonts folders in Mac OS: ~/Library/Fonts/ (user fonts), /Library/Fonts/
(local fonts) or /System/Library/Fonts/ (system fonts).

c. LINUX (most of current distributions)
Just copy font file to a directory read by font-config. In most cases
the directory  /usr/local/share/fonts will be adequate (you can also
copy the font file to ~/.fonts or /usr/share/fonts ). If the font
doesn't appear in the applications font list you can run the fc-cache
program  in order to force a cache rebuild.


2. INSTALLING FONTS IN TEX LIVE

To install fonts in the TeX Live system you have to copy it to the
appropriate directory: (TEXMF root)/texmf-local/fonts/opentype/public/
(you may have to create this directory). When you want install fonts
for only one user, you can use the ~/texmf/fonts/opentype directory
(this directory also may be nonexistent). After coping the font file,
you have to run mktexlsr command to refresh the kpathsea caches.

Most of the typesetting engines can use fonts installed either in OS or
in TeX Live. Microsoft Office (Word) uses, of course, only system fonts.
XeLaTeX can use both of them. LuaLaTeX and ConTeXt uses TeX Live fonts
by default, but if the OSFONTDIR environment variable is set, the
system fonts also can be found.

For typesetting math using an OpenType font with (Lua|Xe)LaTeX, an up
to date version of the unicode-math package (and related LaTeX3
packages) is crucial.


3. CHECKING THE INSTALLATION

In order to verify whether the font installation was successful, you
may wish to run the TeX examples or open the relevant MS Word example
and compare the results (in case of the Word file, just a previewer is
sufficient) with the respective PDF files.

Note that, unlike for TeX, an OTF font is to be referred rather by its
internalname(s) than by its file name.